# `/internal`

Private application and library code. This is the code you don't want others importing in their applications or libraries. Note that this layout pattern is enforced by the Go compiler itself. See the Go 1.4 [`release notes`](https://golang.org/doc/go1.4#internalpackages) for more details. Note that you are not limited to the top level `internal` directory. You can have more than one `internal` directory at any level of your project tree.

You can optionally add a bit of extra structure to your internal packages to separate your shared and non-shared internal code. It's not required (especially for smaller projects), but it's nice to have visual clues showing the intended package use. Your actual application code can go in the `/internal/app` directory (e.g., `/internal/app/myapp`) and the code shared by those apps in the `/internal/pkg` directory (e.g., `/internal/pkg/myprivlib`).

https://github.com/golang-standards/project-layout/tree/master/internal

### `/internal/api`

Holds API implementations (`/internal/api/handlers`) and general server, router and middleware setup.

### `/internal/config`

Holds configuration of this project (translation of `ENV` vars into something useable).

### `/internal/data`

Anything data related (e.g. mappers, DAOs, DTOs, ...), may be especially relevant if you do 3rd party data integrations. Use this package to write **reuseable** functions for your `/internal/api/handlers/*`.

May hold live db fixture data (for `app db seed`).

### `/internal/i18n`

Our implementation for i18n/l10n, as available via `api.Server.I18n`. Your own localized i18n translation bundles should live within **`/web/i18n`**.

### `/internal/mailer`

Email handling sub-service.

### `/internal/models`

> **Autogenerated** [SQLBoiler](https://github.com/volatiletech/sqlboiler#getting-started) models. Do *not* put your own files in here.

These are based on your current database in `../migrations/*.sql` and updated while running `make`.

### `/internal/push`

Push notifications sub-service.

### `/internal/test`

Test-Setup related code and general testing utility functions.  

Holds test db fixture data (`/internal/test/fixtures.go`).

### `/internal/types`

> **Autogenerated** [go-swagger](https://github.com/go-swagger/go-swagger) types and validations. Do *not* put your own files in here.

These are based on your Swagger OpenAPI specification in `../api/**/*.yml` and updated while running `make`.

### `/internal/util`

Utility functions.